# Project page created to help manage the suite of investments associated with the Optics Strategic Initiative (OSI).

## OSI Working Group Members:  Matthew Campbell - SEFSC (SI lead), Erin Moreland - AFSC,  Thomas Oliver - PIFSC, Kresimir Williams - AFSC, Jennifer Fisher - NWFSC, Christian Reiss - SWFSC, Peter Chase - NEFSC, Elizabeth Clarke - NWFSC, Ben Richards - PIFSC, Derek Bolser - S&T

Our vision for the Optics Strategic Initiative (OSI) is to foster a transformative shift in the National Marine Fisheries Service's (NMFS) approach to optical data collection and processing, reshaping the landscape of resource management and environmental stewardship. We aim to catalyze the transition from traditional ship-based and aerial surveys to platform-agnostic, scalable automated systems, thereby enriching the value and applicability of optics. This journey involves investment in the development of low-cost acquisition hardware, AI-bearing payloads and Uncrewed Systems (UxS), machine learning-assisted image processing, and hybrid cloud processing. Striving to equalize access to these tools across diverse regions, our endeavor is to establish efficient, accessible, and smart optical data acquisition and analysis pipelines, capable of swiftly transforming vast volumes of data into accurate, management-relevant products. In a world grappling with climate change and resource scarcity, the OSI stands at the forefront of NOAA's commitment to a resilient Blue Economy and a Climate Ready Nation.




# Instructions
1) Update your `README.md` file to include the disclaimer and a license. See below for a description of licenses.
2) Include an “about” statement in each repository to make it clear what the purpose of the repository is.
3) Add [topics](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/classifying-your-repository-with-topics) to help users find repositories.
4) [Add a license](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/adding-a-license-to-a-repository). **This is a MUST for public repositories.** If you are migrating a private repository, it is strongly advised to add a license but not required. Work written by For work  produced by U.S. government employees, we are required to use an [open source license](https://opensource.org/license). If contributors other than FTEs wrote code and the repository does not yet have an open source license, make sure all parties agree before applying an open source license. For data/documentation, use [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/public-domain/cc0/). For code, common choices include [Apache 2.0](https://opensource.org/license/apache-2-0) and [MIT](https://opensource.org/license/mit).
5) For private or internal repositories, add the file [`.github/workflows/secretSCAN.yml`](https://github.com/nmfs-ost/ost-template/blob/main/.github/workflows/secretScan.yml). This is a GitHub action that will check for token and keys that are accidentally committed to a repository.
6) For public repositories, the `secretSCAN.yml` file is not needed. Instead, check that [GitHub secret scanning is enabled for the repository](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/code-security/secret-scanning/configuring-secret-scanning-for-your-repositories#enabling-secret-scanning-alerts-for-users).

## For new repositories in nmfs-ost organization

Create a repository from [this template](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template#creating-a-repository-from-a-template) and follow the instructions below.

1) Include an “about” statement in each repository to make it clear what the purpose of the repository is.
2) Add [topics](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/classifying-your-repository-with-topics) to help users find repositories.
3) [Add a license](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/adding-a-license-to-a-repository). **This is a MUST for public repositories.** If you are migrating a private repository, it is strongly advised to add a license but not required. Work written by For work  produced by U.S. government employees, we are required to use an [open source license](https://opensource.org/license). If contributors other than FTEs wrote code and the repository does not yet have an open source license, make sure all parties agree before applying an open source license. For data/documentation, use [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/public-domain/cc0/). For code, common choices include [Apache 2.0](https://opensource.org/license/apache-2-0) and [MIT](https://opensource.org/license/mit).
4) For private or internal repositories, Confirm that the file `.github/workflows/secretSCAN.yml` is in this repository. This is a GitHub action that will check for token and keys that are accidentally committed to a repository.
5) For public repositories, you may delete the file `.github/workflows/secretSCAN.yml`. This is because [GitHub secret scanning is used in Public Repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/code-security/secret-scanning/configuring-secret-scanning-for-your-repositories#enabling-secret-scanning-alerts-for-users).
6) Once you have completed the steps, delete the instructions from this `README.md`.

# Disclaimer
This repository is a scientific product and is not official communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce. The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.
